Explain encapsulation in java
Explain Object Oriented Programming
What are the different types of access modifiers in java an explain each of them?
What is Hash Map? How it internally works in Java?
What is immutable class? How can you implement it in Java?
What is inheritance in java?
What is method overloading and method overriding in java?
What is polymorphism?
What is Singleton? How can you implement Singleton class in Java?
What is the difference between "While Loop" and "Do while loop"?
What is the difference between HashMap and  HashTable?
What is the difference between String and StringBuilder?
What type of programming language is java?
Which class is the parent of all classes in java?
-
Can you implement a method to find out how many times the word repeated in the string statement? (Ex. String = "GS TCS BLR GS TCS HYD GS TCS NYC", Output TCS 3, GS 3, BLR 1, HYD 1, NYC 1)
Can you implement a method to find out the first non-repeatable character in the word? (Example "Input: apple, output a", "Input: racecar, output: e")
Explain the purpose of exception handling in Java and the different types.
What is the difference between deadlock and livelock in Java?
How do you resolve the ClassNotFoundException in Java?
What are memory leaks? How do you diagnose them?
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
What are Wrapper Classes and why do we need them? Explain it.
What is AutoBoxing? Explain it.
What are Variable Arguments? Explain it.
What is the problem with Arrays because of which we prefer using ArrayList?
Explain 2 types of polymorphism.
What is Dynamic dispatch method? (Related to method overriding)
Explain three uses of "super" keyword.
How to convert integer to String?
Difference between a HashSet and TreeSet.
What are the two ways of creating Thread in Java?
What is the use of Finally Keyword?
Explain how to connect a Database from a simple Java class?
Do you have any experience with database testing using SQL? Please give some examples.
Explain the different types of Normalization.
How many Aggregate functions are available in SQL?
How to create empty tables with the same structure as another table?
What are some common clauses used with SELECT query in SQL?
What are the different subsets of SQL?
What is a PK? What is a unique key? What is a Foreign key in SQL?
What is OLTP? What are the differences between OLTP and OLAP?
What is RDBMS? How is it different from DBMS?
What is the difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE statements?
What is the difference between SQL and MySQL?
What is the usage of the NVL() function?
How would you display the last 100 lines of a file and first 100 lines of a file?
Explain how you would find the five largest files in a directory and all its subdirectories.
How to Find and Replace word with another word?
How do you check the open ports ona Linux system?
How do you find and replace text in a file using the sed command in Linux?
How to search a keyword in large files?
How to check running processes in Unix? What is a Zombie Process? How to kill a process?
How to create file in Unix?
How to delete information from a file using vi editor?
How to fing large files using the find command in Linux?
How to read a file and edit file?
How to set permission to file and folder?
Hpw would you change the priority of running processes in Linux?
What does the grep command do in Linux and how is it used?
